when the nothing tech company first
launched in 2020 their whole big selling
point was that they were going to build
technology that faded into the
background Tech that improves your life
and keeps you more connected but without
getting in the way of it and I
absolutely love that Vision they
launched the nothing phone one which
sort of did that with this glyph
lighting system that meant you could
keep your phone face down but still see
your notifications from the back then
the phone 2 which did the same thing
slightly better and now we've got our
third the most affordable so far the
nothing phone 2A which is $349 for the
top and 12 GB Ram model and I think this
is a really good opportunity now that
this company has had three whole phone
releases to decide is what they're doing
actually achieving their goal can using
a nothing phone improve your life make
you a more present person or are these
really just basic phones but with batty
designs for people who are happy to
sacrifice value to be different let's
figure it out so this is the package I
got from nothing okay there's a white
phone 2A and then a black how
adventurous that is kind of the
intention though so let's unbo the white
one it's an unfortunately thin package
which means no charger but credit wear
credits due at the very least it's got
personality unlike the Sea of generic
phones you have to Wade through at this
price point and also funky transparent
nothing cable o these peels are looking
pretty
tasty so the
white and now the black it's nice to see
a pre-installed screen protector on
these two and immediately the second
that you or anyone picks this up you
will get a reaction it might not be a
good one drisha thinks it looks like a
face with some intestines coming out
which is fair and I can't completely
erase that image from my mind now and
Joseph and my team just burst out
laughing the design is clearly not for
everyone and you are going to have to be
ready to defend your choice to people
but there's a few reasons why I
personally do rate it part of it is the
screen to achieve even slim screen
borders like this at a sub $350 price
point is very hard to ignore like when I
cycle between my $1,200 s24 Ultra and
this yes I prefer s24 Ultra obviously
but it doesn't feel like I'm jumping
from expensive phone to cheap phone
which in itself is an achievement part
of it is the sides it's got a completely
fingerprint resistant finish I love
these matte black buttons and also how
you can kind of see bits of the rear
design through it and part of it is of
course this bizarre uniqueness that you
would call the rear this is a plastic
phone by the way which is fairly
standard for the price but what I like
is that they've leaned into that
material as opposed to trying to hide it
there's a lot of companies who try and
make their cheaper plastic phones feel
as similar as possible to their
flagships which are Made of Glass and
Metal but doing that often just makes
them feel like knockoff versions of the
real thing that are lighter than a
feather and cakier than your grandma's M
whereas with the phone 2A this feels
like it has been intentionally designed
to feel well basically like a toy but
you know a solid premium cool toy you
know those fancy robots you'd always see
on the store shelves as a kid but you
wouldn't even dare to ask your parents
for that's the vibe that I get from the
phone 2A especially with this whole
glyph lighting interface running through
its veins and what whether it is or it
isn't it doesn't feel like yet another
mass-produced slab but what about the
software cuz you can have Crazy Design
but if the goal of nothing is to have
Tech that truly does disappear into the
background of your life in a way that's
fundamentally different to anything else
out there then whether or not that
succeeds is going to rest almost
entirely on what it's like to use so one
part of it is the UI this black and
white completely stripped back aesthetic
which I like there's lots of useful
widgets the personalization is great
like with your folders for example you
can configure EX exactly how you want
the apps to display and even pick from
nothing style cover photos if you find
that cleaner and the AI wallpaper
generator I think is fantastic it's a
hem nothing we haven't seen before but
it feels very much tuned with the
nothing minimalist philosophy in mind
they've made it easy to make wallpapers
that naturally suit the software's
aesthetic with the ability to make them
scrolling wallpapers if you want and to
add atmosphere and the nothing glass
effect to your Creations now don't get
me wrong the software is not exciting to
look at but that's kind of the point
it's trying to strip back the power of
any one individual app to demand your
attention and therefore control your
life and I'm all for that the Temptation
is to say well it's just a black and
white icon pack there are literally
thousands of those for free on the Play
store but there is more to it than that
like the locks screen widgets for
example you get to pick basically
anything from live widgets to apps that
you can quick launch to device controls
and it's right there for you to use
without you needing to even unlock your
phone and face your distractions so
every night before I go to bed I put on
airplane mod mode so that's there torch
cuz you never know when you might need
it and that is a compass I've been doing
a lot of potential houses recently and
so anytime I want to check what way
things are facing tap and that is north
and also yes I have a ton of apps but
very little is actually pre-installed on
nothing phones it's clean and it does
genuinely feel like the phone is trying
to make you use your Tech less as
opposed to most affordable phones which
feel like a gateway to the company then
spamming you with promotions or trying
to sell you on their services too at
least for now there isn't any of that
here the software could do with a little
more consistency like why when I'm using
completely stock widgets do I have three
different fonts on my home screen it's
meant to be nothing not everything and
also polish like the lock screen apps
they should animate in in line with this
transition as opposed to just popping in
but for the most part it does look good
and it does effectively make your phone
less attention seeking in a good way
however I don't think this on its own
would be enough for nothing to claim
that they're doing something
particularly different what might though
something that you don't see anywhere
else is this glyph interface with their
past premium phones they've had many
glyph lighting zones this being their
more budget offering it's got three and
that is actually completely fine they
still look cool the lighting is high
quality and consistent and they have
somewhat limited the amount that the
light bleeds into the rest of the design
which helps improve the perception of
precise engineering but most importantly
you can absolutely tell that this
nothing company has spent a lot of time
in boardrooms figuring out every
possible thing that you can do with a
set of LEDs like they can beep different
patterns depending on who's calling
which is cool and well executed as a
feature even if most of the
notifications themselves do just sound
like a fridge door that needs closing or
like a smoke alarm that needs its
batteries replacing I don't know it's
very weird they can light up when you
play music and syn to that music you
know the promise of all those Philips
Hue lighting strips except it does
actually work fun party trick probably
won't use it since turning it on enables
it for literally every single piece of
content you consume including your
morning news
update essential notifications though I
think this is such a cool feature you
can choose any one of your apps and then
specify any type of notification from
that app that you'd like to Mark as
important so for example with your
emails you can choose which inbox counts
as high priority or for slack you could
say well it's only really vital if
there's an incoming call and once you've
done that anytime one of those
notifications comes in from that point
this glyph will stay lit up until you
next unlock your phone have you ever
heard of the saying there's two kinds of
people those that keep their phone face
up and those that keep their phone face
down well choosing a nothing phone is
basically you declaring that you're part
of the Down Club this is designed so
that when you're out at dinner for
example you flip the phone over which
can activate Do Not Disturb mode by the
way so nothing's ringing and you can
rest easy knowing that anything
important you'll still see it and all
the rest of the notifications well you
can get to them later that Concept in my
mind is beautiful and something
introduced in the last generation which
takes it a little further is that one of
those glyphs is also a timer so if you
set a stopwatch for example you can see
the progress and if you order an Uber
you can see how long to pick up so all
of this sounds amazing what's wrong with
it well while I do like the idea of
looking at the back of your phone for a
notification you're losing most of the
information that accompanies that
notification so for example if you're
using this to time your Uber at some
point close to pickup you're going to
need to see the number plate of the
driver who's picking you up so you are
at some point going to have to turn your
phone over and enter the app anyways or
like with emails for example even though
it's very thoughtful of them that you
can set certain inboxes as priority the
problem is that within any given inbox
there's still going to be vast amounts
of variance between the level of
importance of each email that an LED on
the back just can't distinguish between
I mean just for an example over the last
few months my emails have ranged from
would you like to take a flight to the
United States to interview the CEO of
our big tech company to would you like
to test St rotating makeup brush and
it's pretty clear one of those is more
important than the other and the same is
true for messaging like in theory it
makes sense to mark your parents for
example as important enough to light up
the glyph in case there's an emergency
but then the vast majority of their
messages are not going to require
immediate attention and so at that point
are those really essential notifications
after using this for a little bit of
time I imagine most people will
experience enough false positives
messages marked as important that end
end up being not very important when
they check them that they start to tune
out this essential notification glyph
which kind of defeats the purpose of it
in the first place and now you just look
like the fool who left their torch on
now I will admit I have given this whole
glyph thing a bit of slack over the last
few Generations because it's felt like
the rate of improvement was so quick
that the next big game-changing update
always felt just around the corner but
this is the first time that I think I
felt that progress slowing down yes this
is a more affordable phone I have no
doubt that the next flag ship nothing
phone will push the boat out a little
bit more but since their last device
like 8 months ago the point where we
were promised developers were about to
suddenly start having their way with
these glyphs we've had support for like
one major new app Google Calendar and
even that's a bit weird it just gives
you like a 5-minute countdown before
your meeting starts it does work and I
can see the use case but I mean if I was
at dinner and i' flipped my phone over
completely forgetting that I've got an
upcoming meeting I would personally much
rather my phone buzz me like 20 minutes
before to make sure that I knew as
opposed to waiting till 5 minutes before
the meeting and starting a silent
counter just in case I happen to glance
over in time using this phone has made
me feel like we might be starting to
reach the limit of what you can do with
LEDs now maybe if in the future there
was a secondary tiny display here that
could summarize everything that you
needed to know in a really intelligent
concise way it could become a game
changer but as it stands that's about
where the glyph interfaces useful
functionality ends and if you're
enjoying this video then a sub to the
channel would be te
glyphic so before we tie this all
together the final thing that I want to
crystallize is if we took away all the
nothing extras is this actually just
overpriced for what you're getting well
for starters you got the screen this is
a 120 HZ AMOLED full HD Plus display and
for the price it's bright it's smooth
it's slick you honestly couldn't really
expect better you get the latest Android
14 which is already more than most
phones in this bracket but also you
you're going to get solid support 3
years of major Android version upgrades
and 4 years of security updates it's got
a chunky 5,000 mAh battery which with
fast 45 W charging that fully charges in
basically an hour on the dot is a nicely
rounded battery package it's not Supreme
battery life possibly cut into slightly
by the glyph lighting and the extra
software that goes into that but it's
good it's a reliable all day phone and
then for performance there's either 12
gigs of RAM and 256 gigs of storage for
349 and then in some regions you can get
an 8 GB Ram option for cheaper but
that's paired with the dimensity 7200
Pro chipset and it's it's actually
gotten a lot faster as I've been using
it when I was first setting up the phone
and it was downloading 100 apps while
messing with the settings and the camera
at the same time it was chug City it
definitely got overwhelmed but as I've
settled into more normal usage and the
phone's learned my behaviors it's fine
it's fast for the most part it's smooth
for the most part it plays the games I
want to play for the most part the only
reason I'm cave atting it is because
every now and again you do get reminded
that this isn't a top tier Flagship like
sometimes when you exit an app you'll
get a bit of lag sometimes the camera
takes a while to load and sometimes the
photos when you capture them are while
to process but those things only stand
out because for 95% of the things you do
it will slice through them like butter
so then the only remaining question mark
is the cameras is that why you're here
all right fine go on I'll take one and
the cameras sound good this is two 50
megap sensors on the back and then a 2
megap camera for selfies which is
actually quite refreshing compared to
most phones at this price which try to
squeeze like four cameras onto their
phone one will be some crazy 200 100
megapixel camera and then the rest will
be like five and you have no balance but
in the end as far as its actual output
I'd say it's only decent in a way I'm
impressed like the video it cranks out
is on the upper end of what you'd expect
it can take professional photos with
that tasty natural background blur and
the camera app it feels premium which
does make it feel a little bit more like
you're shooting with a proper bit of kit
the fundamentals are solid but there's
just little weaknesses all around like
often times it will apply too much of
the high dynamic range effect which is a
common shortcut for cheaper phones
because it can make Landscapes and City
shots look instantly more impressive but
often times faces and hair they suffer
because of it colors are often
exaggerated versus reality kind of for
the same reasons but more jarringly they
aren't even close to matching between
the phone's two lenses like look how
different the wood paneling looks on the
main camera versus the ultra wide oh
yeah and that Ultra wide even though it
is 50 mapel it doesn't feel it in
day-to-day use it feels distinctly not
very detailed the front camera only
shoots in 1080P there is no 4K and while
it's not bad for 1080p you can tell that
it's lacking as far as 2024 standards go
and the fact that there is no zoom lens
means both that Zoom shots aren't going
to look too hot and also that you're
going to struggle to take any kind of
beautifully framed Supernatural looking
portraits now I realized that sounds
like I've had an enormous dunk on these
devices but those are the differences I
feel coming from a flagship phone for
this price the cameras are about what
you'd expect it's middle of the line so
where does that leave us do nothing
phones and specifically the nothing
phone 2A make your life better well I
would say it can I'd say someone coming
into this with the right attitude could
use the tools that nothing presents you
with to better balance their phone life
and real life but equally I don't think
most of the features have enough depth
to make a significant impact for the
majority so if this was a 49 $99 phone
that was banking on these snazzy nothing
touches to lift it above the competition
I would say hard pass but it isn't doing
that what saves this phone for me is
that even if you stripped all of it even
if this was just a blank slate with no
glyph lights no monochrome software no
fancy design it would still be decent
value $349 for a phone with a great
screen and even borders 12 GB of RAM and
256 gigs of storage Great software
support good battery life and very solid
durable construction is I think pretty
fair and yeah you can absolutely get a
budget phone with a better camera than
this or one with a faster chip than this
but these guys have curated a package
that is overall pretty spot-on for the
majority of people